The Nautilus DevOps team wants to deploy a static website on a Kubernetes cluster. They plan to use Nginx, PHP-FPM, and MySQL for the database. The team has already gathered the requirements and now wants to make the website live. More details can be found below:


1) Create some secrets for MySQL.

Create a secret named mysql-root-pass with key/value pairs as below:
name: password
value: R00t

Create a secret named mysql-user-pass with key/value pairs as below:
name: username
value: kodekloud_tim

name: password
value: YchZHRcLkL

Create a secret named mysql-db-url with key/value pairs as below:
name: database
value: kodekloud_db5

Create a secret named mysql-host with key/value pairs as below:
name: host
value: 127.0.0.1

Note: In this lab, MySQL is deployed as a sidecar container in the same Pod as the web container. To avoid connectivity issues with Service-based access in this lab setup, set the mysql-host secret value to 127.0.0.1.
The mysql-service resource must still be created as required by the task, but the application should connect using localhost.

2) Create a config map php-config for php.ini with variables_order = "EGPCS" data.

3) Create a deployment named lemp-wp.

4) Create two containers under it. First container must be nginx-php-container using image webdevops/php-nginx:alpine-3-php7 and second container must be mysql-container from image mysql:5.6. Mount php-config configmap in nginx container at /opt/docker/etc/php/php.ini location.

5) Add some environment variables for both containers:

MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD, MYSQL_DATABASE, MYSQL_USER, MYSQL_PASSWORD and MYSQL_HOST. Take their values from the secrets you created. Please make sure to use env field (do not use envFrom) to define the name-value pair of environment variables.
6) Create a node port type service lemp-service to expose the web application, nodePort must be 30008.

7) Create a service for mysql named mysql-service and its port must be 3306.

8) We already have a /tmp/index.php file on the jump-host.

Copy this file into the nginx container under document root i.e /app and replace the dummy values for mysql related variables with the environment variables you have set for mysql related parameters. Please make sure you do not hard code the mysql related details in this file, you must use the environment variables to fetch those values.

Once done, you must be able to access this website using Website button on the top bar, please note that you should see Connected successfully message while accessing this page.

Note: The kubectl utility on the jump-host has been configured to work with the Kubernetes cluster.